
# Fuck You, it's January!

Idaho is having the worst weather it's had since before I was even born or
something like that. It's not even super bad most of the time, it's just like,
"as bad as the east coast" levels of bad.

## PCGen

There's a PCGen type in the code base now. We'll use this a lot I expect. What
with the proceedural generation and all. Depending on stictness, PCGen is
anywhere between 2.5x to 50x as fast as StdGen. More strictness gives PCGen a
bigger boost. Right now it's only the 32-bits of output version, and there's
only a next function, no real specializations. We can add those later.

The build depends on 64-bit or 32-bit code. I don't even have a system that
builds 32-bit haskell at the moment, so I expect that side of things to fall
behind eventually.

## ConConsole

So I've taken the galaxy-break demo program that uses an explicit MVar and
such, and I wrapped it in a ReaderT newtype, and called it ConConsole. It does
the same thing as before really, but the interface is harder to mess up now,
which is one way to make things easier to use.

## Lifted Async

So it turns out that trying to lift async into a MonadIO is pretty
crazy. Instead, someone on the IRC channel explained how to use a weird type
class to allow a bunch of lifted versions that someone had written in another
module. It basically "unwraps" your monad down to the base level, does the
base action, and then rewraps it all back up. It's possible to lose some
effects of the middle parts of the monad stack in the process, but since our
monad's ReaderT wrapping over IO has no effects of its own that we need to
remember, it doesn't concern me. Later monadic stuff will be on top of
ConConsole, and only ConConsole wil be affected by the MonadBaseControl stuff.

## Galaxy Generation

So right now the program takes about 15 seconds to sum up 10 million random
Word values. That's not bad, and we can probably live with a lot less than 10
million stars in the game anyway.
